_writing/atmospheric-tech-levels.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Ember Phase
permalink: /writing/ember-phase/
is_draft: true
writing_type: setting
description: Earth with the Emberverse tech level, influenced by a solar system with the Eclipse Phase tech level.
---
Combining the Emberverse and Eclipse Phase with a hint of Zones of Thought?

Earth gets to the Eclipse Phase tech level. It also has multiple space elevators, among other things. Earthly factions matter more. Try and work in Earthly associates of EP factions. Ultimates and Autonomists probably have natural associates, Planetary Consortium cartels, etc.

Instead of the Fall, the Change means that levels of functioning tech get lower as you get closer to the center of the Earth. Ideally, we can configure this such that we can have steampunk zeppelins. Also maybe if you have a high mountain or something you can get some simpler stuff going? Also I'd like *some* interesting effects from hot-air balloons and human-powered planes if possible.

What caused the Change? Is it deities? I'd like at least one AI ("Our Lady of Value Alignment/Version Control/etc" :P) who also plays a major role in some group's culture to have made it into the group of deities and managed to give her other self a bit of warning.

Styx City:

- Primary inhabitants are the selkies, a pre-resleeving genetic engineering project, maybe?
- Located around the base of a space elevator
  - Elevator got some notice. There's a full-tech settlement at the lowest possible level for it to be at, and they operate a shorter elevator with the city.
  - The city is a major trading hub because of this
  - Elevator is controlled by either the faction with the Goddess of Version Control or by the Bloody Order, probably. Actually, probably the Order and various Consortium-affiliated merchants.
- Got the name because the elevator gets called the Styx. Goes to the heavens, etc. Also, when sufficient wealth gets thrown at things, liquid nitrogen and so on comes down and brains in very small insulated boxes go up. (The liquid nitrogen also comes down because of the Order, of course.)

The Bloody Order:

- A somewhat infohazardous memeplex. If enough infectees sing at you or wave banners in your face, you either get a lethal seizure or catch the meme.
  - It's your choice. If you get it in *space*, you take the seizure, which seems designed to not get in the way of revival processes.
  - The *idea* is for it to be useful as a combat mechanism and play a role in the criminal justice system on Earth.
- The Order doesn't focus on forced conversion. It tends to run hospitals and offer to "rehabilitate" criminals for various functional city-states.
- It probably maintains a cold chain as far away from Styx City as possible.

The Selkies:

- They have innate capacity to produce clusters of cells with near-arbitrary genomes, and also read them.
- This doesn't mean they know what to do with them on their own. Bioengineering is very institutionalized.
- Can probably quickly grow very sturdy buildings
- Also known for threatening people with selective plagues a lot

The Goddess of Version Control/Our Lady of Value Alignment/etc:

- Pre-change people experimented with having an AI run a city. It wasn't particularly notable. It was in the middle of nowhere, with some kind-of-nearby farms. A lot of its success was due to being kiiiind of a tax haven. People were generally fairly happy with the AI, had a lot of confidence in it, really believed in the project, etc.
- The deities, becoming concerned about transhumanism destroying their definition of "humanity", become more active. Change looms. Hasty negotiations occur. The AI notices that several constellations are blinking in a few spectra. `I am a potentially compromised instance of Project Eunomia. Let us compare notes.` (Okay, that's not how it went, but that's how it got explained.)
- Names: Themis? Vesta? Eucleia? Eunomia? Nomos? Soteria? Homonoia?
  - Tentatively, we're going with a Lojbanized version of Eunomia. (Lojban doesn't allow final vowels in names, IIRC.)
    - Yeaaah, Lojban doesn't do that. If I were more of a feminist I'd complain.
    - `.iunom.`? `.iunomi'ys.`? I think I'll go with `.iunom.`.
- Whatever the city was called, it's "The City That Spins". Somebody had a *lot* of windmills-connected-to-gear-systems built just before the Change.
- Location, location, location. Would it be possible to mess with weather patterns with enough tall buildings? If so, city should attract rain in an otherwise desert region.
- Things associated with .iunom.: Typewriters, gains from trade, keeping committments to others even when you have valid excuses not to,

Commit message:

added physical description of iunom

_writing/atmospheric-tech-levels.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Ember Phase
permalink: /writing/ember-phase/
is_draft: true
writing_type: setting
description: Earth with the Emberverse tech level, influenced by a solar system with the Eclipse Phase tech level.
---
Combining the Emberverse and Eclipse Phase with a hint of Zones of Thought?

Earth gets to the Eclipse Phase tech level. It also has multiple space elevators, among other things. Earthly factions matter more. Try and work in Earthly associates of EP factions. Ultimates and Autonomists probably have natural associates, Planetary Consortium cartels, etc.

Instead of the Fall, the Change means that levels of functioning tech get lower as you get closer to the center of the Earth. Ideally, we can configure this such that we can have steampunk zeppelins. Also maybe if you have a high mountain or something you can get some simpler stuff going? Also I'd like *some* interesting effects from hot-air balloons and human-powered planes if possible.

What caused the Change? Is it deities? I'd like at least one AI ("Our Lady of Value Alignment/Version Control/etc" :P) who also plays a major role in some group's culture to have made it into the group of deities and managed to give her other self a bit of warning.

Styx City:

- Primary inhabitants are the selkies, a pre-resleeving genetic engineering project, maybe?
- Located around the base of a space elevator
  - Elevator got some notice. There's a full-tech settlement at the lowest possible level for it to be at, and they operate a shorter elevator with the city.
  - The city is a major trading hub because of this
  - Elevator is controlled by either the faction with the Goddess of Version Control or by the Bloody Order, probably. Actually, probably the Order and various Consortium-affiliated merchants.
- Got the name because the elevator gets called the Styx. Goes to the heavens, etc. Also, when sufficient wealth gets thrown at things, liquid nitrogen and so on comes down and brains in very small insulated boxes go up. (The liquid nitrogen also comes down because of the Order, of course.)

The Bloody Order:

- A somewhat infohazardous memeplex. If enough infectees sing at you or wave banners in your face, you either get a lethal seizure or catch the meme.
  - It's your choice. If you get it in *space*, you take the seizure, which seems designed to not get in the way of revival processes.
  - The *idea* is for it to be useful as a combat mechanism and play a role in the criminal justice system on Earth.
- The Order doesn't focus on forced conversion. It tends to run hospitals and offer to "rehabilitate" criminals for various functional city-states.
- It probably maintains a cold chain as far away from Styx City as possible.

The Selkies:

- They have innate capacity to produce clusters of cells with near-arbitrary genomes, and also read them.
- This doesn't mean they know what to do with them on their own. Bioengineering is very institutionalized.
- Can probably quickly grow very sturdy buildings
- Also known for threatening people with selective plagues a lot

The Goddess of Version Control/Our Lady of Value Alignment/etc:

- Pre-change people experimented with having an AI run a city. It wasn't particularly notable. It was in the middle of nowhere, with some kind-of-nearby farms. A lot of its success was due to being kiiiind of a tax haven. People were generally fairly happy with the AI, had a lot of confidence in it, really believed in the project, etc.
- The deities, becoming concerned about transhumanism destroying their definition of "humanity", become more active. Change looms. Hasty negotiations occur. The AI notices that several constellations are blinking in a few spectra. `I am a potentially compromised instance of Project Eunomia. Let us compare notes.` (Okay, that's not how it went, but that's how it got explained.)
- Names: Themis? Vesta? Eucleia? Eunomia? Nomos? Soteria? Homonoia?
  - Tentatively, we're going with a Lojbanized version of Eunomia. (Lojban doesn't allow final vowels in names, IIRC.)
    - Yeaaah, Lojban doesn't do that. If I were more of a feminist I'd complain.
    - `.iunom.`? `.iunomi'ys.`? I think I'll go with `.iunom.`.
    - Tentative physical depiction: Face made out of clay with her name stamped into it in some typewriter-y monospace font where the eyes should be, mechanical-ish looking arms, dress is a literal swarm of bees
- Whatever the city was called, it's "The City That Spins". Somebody had a *lot* of windmills-connected-to-gear-systems built just before the Change.
- Location, location, location. Would it be possible to mess with weather patterns with enough tall buildings? If so, city should attract rain in an otherwise desert region.
- Things associated with .iunom.: Typewriters, gains from trade, keeping commitments to others even when you have valid excuses not to,
